DOCSP-49067: Cursors (#584)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/crud/query/cursors.txt

.. _csharp-cursors:

=========================
Access Data From a Cursor
=========================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 1
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference

.. meta::
   :keywords: read, results, oplog

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to access data from a **cursor** by using the
{+driver-short+}.

> A cursor is a mechanism that returns the results of a read operation in iterable

Reviewer: Q: is `mechanism` the best word here? Perhaps `object` or `construction` or even `tool`?

batches. Because a cursor holds only a subset of documents at any given time,
cursors reduce both memory consumption and network bandwidth usage.

> You can retrieve a cursor by using the ``FindSync()`` and ``FindAsync()`` methods. You can
> also convert the results of the ``Find()`` method to a cursor by chaining the ``ToCursor()``
> or ``ToCursorAsync()`` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can retrieve a cursor by using the ``FindSync()`` or ``FindAsync()`` method. You can
also convert the results of the ``Find()`` method to a cursor by chaining the ``ToCursor()``
or ``ToCursorAsync()`` method.
```

Sample Data
~~~~~~~~~~~

The examples in this guide use the ``restaurants`` collection
in the ``sample_restaurants`` database provided in the :atlas:`Atlas sample datasets </sample-data>`.
To learn how to create a free MongoDB Atlas cluster and load the sample datasets,
see the :ref:`<csharp-get-started>` tutorial.

The examples on this page use the following ``Restaurant`` object to model the documents
in the ``restaurants`` collection:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Cursor.cs
   :start-after: start-restaurant-class
   :end-before: end-restaurant-class
   :language: csharp

.. _csharp-cursors-iterate:

Access Cursor Contents Iteratively
----------------------------------

To iterate over the contents of a cursor, use a ``foreach`` loop inside a ``using`` block.

> The following example retrieves all documents from the ``restaurants`` collection and

Reviewer: I: update this text to match the code examples (can be generic or specific)
```suggestion
The following example retrieves documents from the ``restaurants`` collection and
```
```suggestion
The following example retrieves documents in which the ... is .... from the ``restaurants`` collection and
```

> The following example retrieves all documents from the ``restaurants`` collection and

Reviewer: S: consider showing an example with a filter so that users dont try this code and potentially get an error from the amount of documents

iterates over the results. Select the :guilabel:`Synchronous` or :guilabel:`Asynchronous`
tab to see the corresponding code:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: sync

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Cursor.cs
         :start-after: start-cursor-iterate
         :end-before: end-cursor-iterate
         :language: csharp

>          :dedent:

Reviewer: S: for all examples, consider showing some output to demonstrate the differences in how results look when accessing iteratively vs from a list, etc

Author: Pretty sure there's no difference in output between cursors and lists, it's just differences in program flow. With the current filters this would just be printing Starbucks/Dunkin' Donuts a bunch. I'm not sure including output would help illustrate any functionality differences. Should I tweak the filters so it at least prints different restaurant names?

Reviewer: I think that showing a print statement in the code example might lead users to expect an output block, but it's up to you.

   .. tab:: Asynchronous
      :tabid: async

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Cursor.cs
         :start-after: start-cursor-iterate-async
         :end-before: end-cursor-iterate-async
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:

The following example performs the same operation but uses the ``ToCursor()`` method.
Select the :guilabel:`Synchronous` or :guilabel:`Asynchronous`
tab to see the corresponding code:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: sync

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Cursor.cs
         :start-after: start-cursor-iterate-to-cursor
         :end-before: end-cursor-iterate-to-cursor
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:

   .. tab:: Asynchronous
      :tabid: async

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Cursor.cs
         :start-after: start-cursor-iterate-to-cursor-async
         :end-before: end-cursor-iterate-to-cursor-async
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:

Retrieve All Documents
----------------------

.. warning::

   If the number and size of documents returned by your query exceeds available

>    application memory, your program will crash. If you expect a large result

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   application memory, your program might crash. If you expect a large result
```

   set, :ref:`access your cursor iteratively <csharp-cursors-iterate>`.

To retrieve all documents from a cursor, use the ``ToList()`` method, as shown in the
following example. Select the :guilabel:`Synchronous` or :guilabel:`Asynchronous`
tab to see the corresponding code:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: sync

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Cursor.cs
         :start-after: start-cursor-to-list
         :end-before: end-cursor-to-list
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:

   .. tab:: Asynchronous
      :tabid: async

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/fundamentals/code-examples/Cursor.cs
         :start-after: start-cursor-to-list-async
         :end-before: end-cursor-to-list-async
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:

Tailable Cursors
----------------

When querying on a :manual:`capped collection </core/capped-collections/>`, you
can use a **tailable cursor** that remains open after the client exhausts the
results in a cursor. To create a tailable cursor with capped collection,

> set the ``CursorType`` option of a ``FindOptions`` object to ``CursorType.TailableAwait``

Reviewer: ```suggestion
create a ``FindOptions`` object and set the ``CursorType`` property to ``CursorType.TailableAwait``.
```

> and pass this ``FindOptions`` object to the find method of your choice. The following example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, pass the ``FindOptions`` object to one of the find operation methods. The following example
```
